tags: reference

# Glossary

[TOC]

## Batch, Batch run

A batch, or batch run, is a run that generates other runs. Batches are
started by running an operation with one or more batch specifiers:

- A batch file argument
- A flag range value
- A flag list value

## Batch file

A file containing one or more flag combinations, with each flag
combination being used to generate a run.

## Experiment

An experiment is a way of describing [run](#run) that generates trials
for comparison. An experiment in Guild is no different from any other
run---the term is used merely by convention where
applicable. Experiments can be single runs or batch runs.

## Model

A representation of a machine learning model that provides one or more
operations.

## Operation

A specification used to start a run.

## Range value

A flag value that specifies a range within minimum and maximum values.

## Run

An operation system process, which may or may not be running, with
associated run directory and metadata. When the operating system
process is running, the run is considered *running*. When the
operating system process is not running, the run is in one of two
states: *pending* or stopped.

If stopped, the status depends on the process exit code. If the
process exited successfully---that is, with a ``0`` exit code---it is
*completed*. If the process was terminated by a user or system
generated interrupt, it is *terminated*. Otherwise a stopped process
has an *error*.

Pending runs have been started but are not yet running their target
operation. Pending runs may be performing preparation steps such as
downloading files or running `pre-exec` steps, or they may be part of
a batch run and waiting on other runs to finish.

## Trial

A trial is a way of describing a run generated by a batch run. A trial
in Guild is no different from any other batch generated run---the term
is used merely by convention where applicable.
