title: Introduction
tags: concepts

# Guild AI introduction

[TOC]

This introduction provides an overview of Guild AI core
functionality. Feel free to follow the steps under each **Example**
section below to get hands-on experience with Guild. The example steps
implement the Keras image classifier described in TensorFlow's *[Train
your first neural network: basic classification
->](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/keras/basic_classification)*. Refer
to the [completed
project](https://github.com/guildai/examples/tree/master/fashion) for
the full example.


Before running any of the steps below, first [](alias:install-guild).

## Guild projects

Guild projects are standard TensorFlow or Keras source code projects
that contain a file named `guild.yml` in the root directory. We refer
to such files as [Guild files](term:guild-file).

Guild files supplement TensorFlow and Keras projects. You generally
don't need to modify your project source files to take advantage of
Guild features.

Guild files are YAML formatted files that define [models](term:model),
model [operations](term:operation), [resources](term:resource), and
[packages](term:package).

### Example

For hands on experience with projects, start by creating a project
directory:

``` command
mkdir sample-project
```

Create a file ``sample-project/guild.yml`` and modify it to be:

``` yaml
model: fashion
description: Basic fashion MNIST image classifier.
```

Save your changes to ``guild.yml``. Confirm that the project structure
is:

<div class="file-tree">
<ul>
<li class="is-folder open">sample-project
 <ul>
 <li class="is-file">guild.yml</li>
 </ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>

Change to the project directory and list the project models:

``` command
cd sample-project
guild models
```

Guild displays the project models:

``` output
./fashion  Basic fashion MNIST image classifier.
```

Guild models represent the models in your project. In this case, we
are developing a model that predicts the class of an image from the
MNIST fashion dataset. In the next section, add support for training.

## Model operations

Model operations automate model related tasks. The most common
operation is ``train`` but, as we'll see later in this introduction,
operations can be any task that you want to automate.

Operations are run using the [](cmd:run) command. As we'll see in the
next section, each operation run is tracked as a separate experiments.

### Example

If you are following the examples, add the ``train`` by modifying
``guild.yml`` to be:

``` yaml
model: fashion
description: Basic fashion MNIST image classifier.
operations:
  train:
    description: Train classifier from scratch.
    main: train
```

Save your changes to ``guild.yml``.

List available project operations:

``` command
guild ops
```

Guild displays the model operations:

``` output
./fashion:train  Train classifier from scratch.
```

Let's attempt to train the model by running ``train``:

``` command
guild run train
```

Press `Enter` to confirm the operation.

The command fails with the message:

``` output
guild: No module named train
```

Guild operations are implemented using Python main
modules---i.e. modules that can be executed as a program using
Python's `-m` option (see [Python help
->](https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#cmdoption-m) for more
information). This means that any Python script can be used for a
model operation.

In this case, the operation fails because the Python module ``train``
is undefined.

Download [train.py
->](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/guildai/examples/master/fashion/train.py)
and save it to the project directory. If you have `wget` installed,
you can download the file directly to the project directory by
running:

``` command
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/guildai/examples/master/fashion/train.py
```

Confirm that the project structure is:

<div class="file-tree">
<ul>
<li class="is-folder open">sample-project
 <ul>
 <li class="is-file">guild.yml</li>
 <li class="is-file">train.py</li>
 </ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>

Now that ``train.py`` is available, run the operation again:

``` command
guild run train
```

Press `Enter` to confirm the operation.

Guild runs the train operation by executing ``train.py`` as a Python
main module---the operation is implemented entirely by that
module. Guild however executes the module in a new directory for each
run. We'll look more closely at that in the next section.

## Experiments

Guild tracks each operation run as an isolated experiment using [run
directories](term:run-dir). Files generated by a run are written to a
unique run directory and can be accessed as normal files. Guild
additionally writes run metadata to each run directory.

Guild does not store experiment data in a database---all information
associated with a run, including generated files, is available
directly on the file system.

Guild provides extensive features to manage and use runs:

- Show run information, including metadata, files, and output
- List by operation, status, and label
- Delete, restore, and purge
- Export and import
- Label
- Push to and pull from remote environments
- Compare run performance
- Diff run metadata, files, and output

For more information about managing runs, see [Runs](/docs/runs/).

### Examples

If you are following the examples, we are resuming from the `train`
operation, which you ran in the previous section.

#### List runs

List available runs by running:

``` command
guild runs
```

Guild displays the runs so far. You should see two (dates and IDs will
differ):

``` output
[0:19c67a72]  ./fashion:train  2018-10-16 15:57:32  completed
[1:1451e20c]  ./fashion:train  2018-10-16 15:57:23  error
```

The latest run, which is listed first, should have a status of
**completed**, indicating that the operation exited without an
error. The previous run, which is listed second, should have a status
of **error** because the `train` module was not originally available
(see the example above).

#### Show run info

Show the output for the failed run:

``` command
guild run info --output 1
```

The option ``--output`` tells Guild to include run output. The value
``1`` tells Guild to show information for the run with index ``1``
(see listing above).

You should see information for the failed run (dates and IDs will
differ):

``` output
id: 1451e20cd18611e88f52d017c2ab916f
operation: ./fashion:train
status: error
started: 2018-10-16 15:57:23
stopped: 2018-10-16 15:57:23
run_dir: ~/.guild/runs/1451e20cd18611e88f52d017c2ab916f
command: /usr/bin/python -um guild.op_main train
exit_status: 1
pid:
output:
  guild: No module named train
```

Note the error message in the output. This information is retained as
a part of the tracked experiment.

#### Delete a run

We don't want to keep the failed run, so it's safe to delete it:

``` command
guild runs rm 1
```

Guild will prompt you before deleting the run. Press `Enter` to
confirm. After deleting the run, you can verify that it was deleted by
running ``guild runs``.

If you make a mistake and delete a run by accident, you can restore it
using [runs restore](cmd:runs-restore).

#### List run files

List the files associated with the training run:

``` command
guild ls
```

By default the [](cmd:ls) command shows relative file paths for the
latest run. You can show full paths by including the ``-f``
option---this is useful if you want to access a particular file on the
file system.

#### View run results with TensorBoard

View the training run in TensorBoard:

```command
guild tensorboard
```

Guild will start TensorBoard and open a browser to let you browse the
TensorFlow event logs generated by the `train` operation.

## End-to-end workflow

## Model tests

## Packages and code reuse
