tags: core-concept

# Models

[TOC]

A model in Guild AI is a representation of a machine learning model. A
model may be as simple, like a linear regression, or complex, like a
deep neural network.

Models in Guild are characterized by their support of
[operations](term:operation), which are actions that can be performed
on the model. One of the most common model operations is `train`,
which iteratively modifies model parameters to optimize the model's
predictive or generative capability. Other common operations include
`evaluate`, `predict`, `deploy`, and `generate`.

Guild does not implement model operations. That task is the
responsibility of the model developer. Guild instead manages the work
flow associated with running operations and tracking results.

Consider the following Guild command:

``` command
guild run train mnist
```

When this command is run, Guild will look for a model named ``mnist``
and then for an operation associated with that model named
``train``. With this information, Guild will start a
[](term:run). Guild tracks run metadata and output so you can access
it later.

Guild looks for models in [Guild files](term:guild-file), which are
files named `guild.yml` that contain model definitions.

Here's what a `guild.yml` that defines an `mnist` model might look
like:

``` yaml
model: mnist
operations:
  train:
    main: train_mnist
```

This file tells Guild that the model `mnist` has an operation `train`
that is performed by running a Python module `train_mnist`.

Here's what `train_mnist.py` might look like:

``` python
import mnist_data
import mnist_model

def train():
    data = mnist_data.load()
    model = mnist_model.init()
    model.train(data)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    train()
```

Models in Guild are flexible and can be used to manage any type of
operation associated with the model.

## Create a model

To create a model, create a file named `guild.yml` in your model
project directory.

Using a text editor, paste the following code sample into `guild.yml`:

``` yaml
- model: my-model
  description: My model
  operations:
    train:
      main: train_my_model
```

- Replace the values for `model` and `description` to reflect the
  attributes of your model.

- Replace `train_my_model` with the Python module used to train your
  model.

- Save `guild.yml`.

For more information on defining models and operations, see [Guile
file reference](/docs/reference/guild-file/).

For a detailed step-by-step example of creating a Guild model, see
[](alias:add-guild).

You can experiment with training your model by running:

``` command
guild run train
```

For information on working with runs generated by operations, see
[Runs](/doc/runs/).

## Install models

Guild AI is a package manager that can be used to install models from
the deep learning ecosystem. Models are distributed in standard Python
packages that can be installed with pip or Guild.

To install a package, run:

```
guild install PACKAGE
```

You can lookup packages by running:

``` command
guild search TERM
```

For example, to install a package that contains ResNet models, search
for ``resnet`` by running:

``` command
guild search resnet
```

You can also browse [](alias:packages) or [PyPI
->](https://pypi.org/search/?q=gpkg).

After reviewing the list of available packages, if you decide to
install `tensorflow.reset`, you can install it by running:

``` command
guild install tensorflow.resnet
```

For more information, see [Install
packages](/docs/packages/#install-packages) and the [](cmd:install)
command.

## Get model help

To view help for models defined in the current directory (i.e. models
defined in `./guild.yml`) run:

``` command
guild help
```

To view help for models defined in another directory, run:

``` command
guild help DIRECTORY
```

!!! note
    `DIRECTORY` must contain a Guild file (i.e. `guild.yml`).

To view help for models defined in a package, run:

``` command
guild help PACKAGE
```

For example, to view help for the models provided by
`tensorflow.resnet`, run:

``` command
guild help tensorflow.resnet
```

For more information, see the [](cmd:help) command.

## List models

List available models by running:

``` command
guild models
```

You can filter the results using a term. For example, to list
available models that contain ``cnn``, run:

``` command
guild models cnn
```

For more information, see the [](cmd:models) command.

## Uninstall models

You can remove models defined in packages by uninstalling the
packages.

``` command
guild uninstall PACKAGE
```

The package that a model is associated with is displayed when you run
``guild models`` in the form `PACKAGE/MODEL`.

For more information, see [Uninstall
packages](/docs/packages/#uninstall-packages) and the
[](cmd:uninstall) command.
