title: Overview
pagenav_title: Guild AI overview
tags: concepts

# Guild AI overview

[TOC]

Guild AI is a toolkit that streamlines TensorFlow and Keras model
development. It provides features that let you train, evaluate, and
release deep learning models with less time and with fewer errors.

Here's a training operation in Guild AI:

``` command
guild train resnet-50
```

When you train a model using Guild, a number of important steps are
performed for you:

- Guild creates a unique run directory to capture the results of the
  training experiment.

- Guild saves details about the operation, including the model,
  hyperparameters, environment, and command.

- Guild directs files generated by the training operation, such as
  TensorFlow event logs and saved models, to the run directory.

As a result, each time you perform a training operation on a model,
you retain the results as a unique experiment.

Guild provides tools for evaluating your experiments:

- Compare training loss, validation accuracy, and other metrics across
  runs.

- Use TensorBoard to evaluate metrics generated during the training
  process.

- Browse training artifacts.

- Annotate runs to capture your ideas.

When you're happy with a trained model, its artifacts are available to
deploy to production. If it's Cloud ML ready, you can deploy it to the
cloud with a single command.

## Guild files

Guild makes use of Guild files, provide information needed to run
operations on a model.

Guild files are always named `guild.yml`.

Here's a simple example:

``` yaml
model: cifar10-cnn
description: CNN classifier for CIFAR10 dataset
operations:
  train:
    description: Train the CNN
    cmd: train_cnn
    flags:
      epochs: 10000
      batch-size: 128
```

This tells Guild that the `train` operation is implemented by a Python
script named `train_cnn.py` and that it accepts two flags: `epochs`
and `batch-size`.

From a command line, a user can train the CIFAR10 CNN classifier by
running:

```
guild train cifar10-cnn epochs=1000 batch-size=64
```

This command has the effect of running `train_cnn.py` with the
specified flag values as a distinct run, which can be evaluated during
or after the operation.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="/docs/reference/guild-file/">Guild
file reference<i class="fa next"></i></a>

## Packages

Packages are containers for [models](#models) and required
[resources](#resources). They are the basis of deep learning model
distribution in Guild AI.

You can discover packages [online](/models/) or by using Guild's
[](cmd:search) command.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="/docs/packages/">More about packages<i class="fa next"></i></a>

## Models

Guild models correspond to machine learning models. They're defined in
Guild files with their *operations*, which can be run to perform
training, evaluation, and other model related work.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="/docs/models/">More about models<i class="fa next"></i></a>

## Operations

Operations are *actions* that you can perform on a model. The most
common operation in deep learning is `train`, which optimizes a model
using data. But operations can be anything at all!

Examples of operations that a model might provide include:

`train`
: Train a model---nearly every model supports it!

`finetune`
: finetune a model using a pretrained model as a starting point.

`evaluate`
: Measure model performance using a test dataset.

`optimize`
: Optimize a model for a target environment (e.g. compress the model
  size for mobile applications)

`deploy`
: Deploy a model to a target environment.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="/docs/operations/">More about
operations<i class="fa next"></i></a>

## Runs

A *run* is generated each time you start an operation with the
[](cmd:run) command. Runs preserves the outcome of each experiment,
allowing you to analyze your results and make informed decisions about
next steps.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="/docs/runs/">More about runs <i
class="fa next"></i></a>

## Resources

Resources are files and software libraries required by
operations. Models and packages may provide resources, which Guild
makes available to operations during each run.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="/docs/resources/">More about resources <i
class="fa next"></i></a>
